Cert checks only IP address, clarify server name (#43)
ietf-wg-add/draft-ietf-add-ddr: draft-ietf-add-ddr.md

Designated Resolver that supports DNS encryption that performs a TLS handshake.

> In order to be considered an authenticated Designated Resolver, the

Reviewer: I don't think that you can consider a resolver to be "authenticated" if all you have is an IP cert for an IP address that you found in an RA/DHCP packet.  That's no better than something that you found on a USB stick in a Walmart car park.

This is a policy statement: a client chooses to use a secured protocol for talking to a discovered resolver on the basis that it couldn't be worse than using an unsecured protocol.  This document claims that ownership over the IP address is strictly better.  That only assumes that the PKI you use to verify that ownership is trustworthy.  Thus, the secured protocol is OK to use.

Author: @martinthomson if you look in context, this is in the definition for the "Authenticated mode" vs the "Opportunistic mode". This could also be put as "the mode where you check for the address in a certificate" and "the mode where you require the resolver to be accessed on the same IP address, and check nothing in the certificate".

We can editorially find-and-replace these terms if we want, but that should not be in this PR.

     alpn=dot )
~~~

Clients MUST validate that for any Encrypted Resolver discovered using a
known resolver name, the TLS certificate of the resolver contains the

> known name in the SubjectAlternativeName field. In the example above,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
known name in a subjectAltName extension. In the example above,
```

the same hostname. In the example above, both DoH and DoT use the name
`resolver.example.com` for their TLS certificates. If a deployment uses a
different hostname for one protocol, but still wants clients to treat both DNS
servers as designated, the TLS certificates MUST include the name for which

> the client issued the query in the SubjectAlternativeName field. Note that

Reviewer: I think that you will need to be more precise.  There are lots of DNS queries involved here.

Author: Okay, I restructured this paragraph to be clearer.

referring IP addresses in their TLS certificates. This may pose challenges for
resolvers with a large number of referring IP addresses.

## Server Name Handling

When resolvers are designated using queries for "resolver.arpa" {{bootstrapping}},
the name of the Designated Resolver is sent via the Server Name Indication
extension of TLS {{?RFC8446}} for both DoT and DoH, and the host in the URI for
DoH.

Clients MUST NOT use "resolver.arpa" as the server name. Clients can either use
IP address of the designating Unencrypted Resolver or the TargetName in the

> ServiceMode SVCB record as the server name.

Reviewer: You can't put an IP in SNI, but this reads like you might be suggesting that.

My suggestion would be that "Clients MUST NOT send a TLS SNI when establishing a connection to a server that was discovered with a query to "resolver.arpa"."

Designated resolvers that support authenticated discovery MUST accept the IP

> address of designating Unencrypted Resolvers as the server name for DoT and DoH.

Reviewer: See above regarding IP+SNI.

I think that you can strike this bit.

referring IP addresses in their TLS certificates. This may pose challenges for
resolvers with a large number of referring IP addresses.

## Server Name Handling

Clients MUST NOT use "resolver.arpa" as the server name either in the TLS
Server Name Indication in TLS ({{?RFC8446}}) for DoT or DoH connections,
or in the URI host for DoH requests.

Designated DoH resolvers that support authenticated discovery for clients
that only know an IP address MUST accept both of the following as the

> URI host in requests:

Reviewer: I'm still skeptical about this bit.

Author: Yes, I understand. We'll cover this at the meeting next week.

The main reason I care strongly about this is that, because the intent of checking the address in the certificate is to allow the use of other addresses, when I discover https://dns.google/dns-query from 8.8.8.8, I want to let clients access the resolver over IPv6 using the normal connection establishment logic for a DNS name dns.google; and it is actually quite awkward for many URL APIs to have the URL of the request be https://8.8.8.8/dns-query but have the connection to the name dns.google with happy eyeballs landing me on an IPv6 address. As long as the address 8.8.8.8 is in the certificate, the validation check is satisfied. I don't see merit in forcing other values, like the URI host, to be locked to that.

referring IP addresses in their TLS certificates. This may pose challenges for
resolvers with a large number of referring IP addresses.

## Server Name Handling

Clients MUST NOT use "resolver.arpa" as the server name either in the TLS
Server Name Indication (SNI) ({{?RFC8446}}) for DoT or DoH connections,
or in the URI host for DoH requests.

When performing discovery using resolver IP addresses, clients MUST

> use the IP address as the URI host for DoH requests.

Author: @martinthomson @mstojens  please check this text

## Server Name Handling

Clients MUST NOT use "resolver.arpa" as the server name either in the TLS
Server Name Indication in TLS ({{?RFC8446}}) for DoT or DoH connections,
or in the URI host for DoH requests.

Designated DoH resolvers that support authenticated discovery for clients
that only know an IP address MUST accept both of the following as the
URI host in requests:

- the IP address of designating Unencrypted Resolver
- the TargetName in the ServiceMode SVCB record, which is the

> hostname for which the client looked up address (A and AAAA) records

Reviewer 2: Minor sugegstion: + " if the SVCB response did not contain additional A/AAA records or IP address hints."

(either way, needs the end punctuation though)

Author: Fair! I've changed the text to say that it's the hostname that maps to the address records. Technically, the A/AAAA records need to be grabbed even if the SVCB record has hints, but I removed the text that says that the client queried for these records (since they may have been present in additional records).
